# Localization

In order to handle the international differences in number and date formats `react-widgets` uses Globalize.js as the default localization strategy. Globalize handles both numbers and dates making it a great fit for a library offering both number and date pickers. Of course not everyone needs as robust localization support, so you are free to swap out Globalize for whatever tool you wish.

## Use with multiple locales

Globalize comes with the 'en' culture loaded by default, but provides many many others as well. To load additional culture files just require them via `require('globalize/lib/cultures/globalize.culture.[culture string]')`. If you are using Globalize as an external module, simply load the files you want in a `<link/>` tag.

You can load multiple culture files at once and switch between them by passing the culture string (e.g. 'ar-ZA') to individual widgets or set the culture globally for all widgets with `globalize.culture('ar-ZA')`.

#### Bundling Caveats

Loading globalize cultures mutates the "Globalize" object, this means you need to ensure that only one instance of Globalize included in your app at a time. If you are using Browserify or Webpack, 
you can make use of their configuration options to ensure this. You can also use `npm dedupe` to ensure only one copy is included. If all else fails you can explicitly pass the correct Globalize instance to `react-widgets` with the included Globalize Localizers.

```js
var { 
    globalizeNumberLocalizer
  , globalizeDateLocalizer } = require('react-widgets/lib/globalize-localizers')

configure.setNumberLocalizer(globalizeNumberLocalizer(globalize))
configure.setDateLocalizer(globalizeDateLocalizer(globalize))
```

## Localizers

All localization functionality is contained in "Localizers", making it easy to swap out 
different localization strategies. There are two types of 
localizers: `DateLocalizer` and `NumberLocalizer`. Localizers are used to handle 
the _parsing_, converting a string into a proper type, and _formating_, converting a type 
to a string representation. Localizers also provide a way to set all localization specific widget props at once, 
through "formats".

## Creating a Localizer

Creating a localizer is as easy as providing `react-widgets` an localizer options object. 
Localizers must provide `parse()` and `format()` functions as well as provide default values for all the 
required formats the widgets need.

Formats can be whatever type your localization strategy requires (strings, objects, etc), however functions are always valid. The default formats, for example, can be strings or functions. If you wanted to use the builtin `Intl` apis for formating, formats might be an options object to pass to `Intl.DateTimeFormat()`. Function formats are called automatically by the localizer with the `value`, the `culture` string and the localizer instance.

__For a practical example of creating a Localizer check out [this MomentJs Localizer](https://github.com/jquense/react-widgets-localizer-moment")__


```js
var localizer = {

  formats: {
    day: 'DD',
    month: 'mmm',
    // we always pass a function for more advanced formats such as returning a year 'range' 
    // to represent a decade e.g "2000 - 2009". Notice the localizer instance is the third argument, 
    // which can be used to format or parse as needed.
    decade: (date, culture, localizer) => {
      return localizer.format(date, 'YYYY') + ' - ' + localizer.format(lastYearOfDecade(date), 'YYYY')
    }
  },

  parse(value, format, cultureStr){
    return parsedDate
  },

  format(value, format, cultureStr){
    return formattedDateString
  }
}
```

## Using Localizers

`react-widgets` provides a `setDateLocalizer` and `setNumberLocalizer` functions for swapping localizers. Depending on if you are consuming widgets via the main module export (`require('react-widgets')`), or requiring each widget individually, you can get access to this API in two ways. Each method will validate your localizer object to make sure it conforms to the expected api.

```js

// From the main export
var configure = require('react-widgets').configure 

// Alternatively 
configure = require('react-widgets/lib/configure')

var myDateLocalizer = {...}
var myNumberLocalizer = {...}

// Pass the Localizer options object
configure.setDateLocalizer(myDateLocalizer)

configure.setNumberLocalizer(myNumberLocalizer)
```

### Bundling Caveats

Handling optional frontend dependancies is hard, and unfortunately there isn't a good way for library authors to make it easier. Because we want to make sure the there is a robust localization strategy included in react-widgets, Globalize is included as a direct dependancy. Practically this means that if you want to replace it you should also take care to exclude it from your builds, when using a frontend bundling tool.

#### Webpack

If you are using webpack you can ignore Globalize using the `IgnorePlugin`.

```js
// in your webpack config
{
  plugins: [
    new webpack.IgnorePlugin(/globalize$/)
  ]
}
```

#### Browserify
You can make use of the `ignore` option to exclude globalize from builds.
```jsbrowserify --ignore globalize --ignore-missing```

```js
{
  //...
  ignore: ['globalize']
}
```

## Localizer Api

### `DateLocalizer`
An Object implementing the following api.

```
{
  propType: PropType?,
  formats: object,
  firstOfWeek: function,
  parse: function,
  format: function
}
```

#### required formats
_Localizers must provide default values for each required format._

- `default`: the default date diaplay format, generally a "long" format showing both date and time
- `date`: A date only format
- `time`: A time only format
- `header`: The heading of the Calendar month view, contextuals the current month, e.g. "Jan 2014"
- `footer`: The Calendar footer format, for displaying Today's date
- `dayOfMonth`: The day of the month
- `month`: Month name, used in the Year view of the Calendar
- `year`: year format, used in the Decade view of the Calendar
- `decade`: a decade format, used in the Century view of the Calendar, eg. "2010 - 2019"
- `century`: A century format, used the in the Calendar heading


#### `propType` (optional)
A React PropType that is used to validate the Date formats

#### `parse`
Convert a locale formatted string to a JavaScript Date object.

```
function(
  value: string,
  format: string|object,
  culture: string?
) -> Date?
```

#### `format`
Convert a Date object to a locale specific string

```
function(
  value: Date?,
  format: string|object,
  culture: string?
) -> string
```

#### `firstOfWeek`

Return the locale specific first day of the week from 0 (Sunday) to 6 (Saturday).

```
function(
  culture: string?
) -> number (0 -6)
```

### `NumberLocalizer`
An Object implementing the following api.
```
{
  propType: PropType?,
  formats: object,
  parse: function,
  format: function
}
```

#### required formats
_Localizers must provide default values for each required format._

- `default` The number picker display format

#### `propType` (optional)
A React PropType that is used to validate the number formats

#### `parse`
Convert a locale specific string to a JavaScript Number
```
function(
 value: string,
 culture: string?
) -> Date?

```

#### `format`
Convert a Number to a locale specific string
```
function(
 value: Date?,
 format: string|object,
 culture: string?
) -> string
```


</section>